Ryan (Sales): Hi everyone, uh, thanks so much for jumping on this call today — really appreciate you all making the time.
Ryan (Sales): So, um, I thought we'd start with a quick round of intros and then, you know, I can walk you through what Veltrix actually does before we get into your specific situation.
Jamira (HR Director): Sure, I'm Jamira, HR Director at Hartwell Group. We're, uh, about 420 employees across the UK and, like, a smaller office in Germany.
Tom (Head of Ops): Tom here, Head of Operations. I basically, um, own the tooling decisions alongside Jamira and our IT manager who, uh, couldn't make this slot.
Chloe (HR Ops): And I'm Chloe, um, HR Operations. I'm the one who, like, actually lives in our current systems every day so I'll be the one asking the annoying detailed questions.
Ryan (Sales): Ha, please do — those are, uh, the most useful ones. So, can I ask, what does your current HR tech stack look like?
Jamira (HR Director): We're on BambooHR for core HR, um, Sage Payroll for the UK, a separate German payroll bureau, and, like, a completely manual performance review process in spreadsheets.
Chloe (HR Ops): And the onboarding is, uh, a SharePoint checklist that nobody keeps updated. It's, you know, genuinely a mess.
Tom (Head of Ops): The biggest pain is, like, reconciling data between all these things. Chloe estimates she spends, um, nearly a full day a week just cross-checking employee records between BambooHR and Sage.
Ryan (Sales): Yeah that, uh, reconciliation burden is something we hear constantly. And actually that's, you know, the core problem Veltrix is designed to solve.
Ryan (Sales): Veltrix is a cloud-native HR and people operations platform — the key idea is, like, one platform, one employee record for everything from recruitment to offboarding.
Ryan (Sales): When you update a salary in payroll, it, um, reflects instantly in performance, analytics, and the self-service portal — there's no sync job, no reconciliation step, because it's, you know, the same data.
Chloe (HR Ops): That sounds almost too good to be true honestly. Like, our BambooHR and Sage don't even know each other exist.
Ryan (Sales): Right, and that's, uh, a structural thing — they're different vendors, different data models. Veltrix is built as, like, a single system from the ground up, not modules bolted together.
Jamira (HR Director): Can you walk us through, um, what modules you actually cover? I want to understand if this genuinely replaces everything or if we'd still need, like, separate tools.
Ryan (Sales): Absolutely — we have seven core modules. Let me, uh, run through them quickly and then we can slow down on whichever ones matter most to you.
Ryan (Sales): First is Recruit and Talent Acquisition — that's a full applicant tracking system, um, with multi-channel job posting to over 120 job boards, structured interview scorecards, offer letters, e-signature.
Ryan (Sales): Second is Onboard and Lifecycle Management — so preboarding task automation, like, document collection, IT provisioning requests, policy acknowledgements, all configurable by role.
Ryan (Sales): Third is Core HR and Employee Records — the, um, system of record for all employee data. Personal info, employment history, comp records, org chart, self-service portal for employees.
Ryan (Sales): Fourth is Payroll and Compensation — native payroll in six countries including the UK, and, you know, for Germany we have a certified connector to your payroll bureau.
Chloe (HR Ops): Oh wait — UK native payroll? So we could, like, actually run UK payroll inside Veltrix and get rid of our Sage contract?
Ryan (Sales): Exactly. UK is one of our, um, six native payroll countries. Full gross-to-net calculation, RTI filing, year-end compliance — all handled in-platform.
Tom (Head of Ops): And Germany — you said a connector. So we'd still need the German bureau but, uh, Veltrix would feed it automatically?
Ryan (Sales): Right — Veltrix acts as the system of record for all employee data, and on each pay cycle it, you know, pushes the relevant payroll inputs to your German provider automatically. No manual re-entry.
Tom (Head of Ops): That alone would save, like, several hours a month on our German payroll prep. Okay, keep going.
Ryan (Sales): Fifth is Performance and Goals — OKR framework, um, bi-annual or continuous review cycles, 360-degree feedback, and — this one tends to resonate — a calibration workflow.
Jamira (HR Director): Calibration workflow — can you explain what that means? We've had, like, huge problems with managers rating people inconsistently across departments.
Ryan (Sales): So in Veltrix, the calibration session brings all your managers into a single view — they can see, um, each other's rating distributions side by side before anything is finalised.
Ryan (Sales): An HR Business Partner facilitates it and the dashboard shows rating curves, outlier flags, cross-team comparisons in real time. It's, like, designed to normalise ratings without a three-hour manual spreadsheet session.
Jamira (HR Director): That is, uh, exactly what we need. Our last cycle was genuinely embarrassing — two managers gave everyone five out of five, two gave everyone three.
Chloe (HR Ops): And then we had to, like, go back and manually adjust everything before we could run the merit cycle. It took, um, two weeks.
Ryan (Sales): Yeah, the calibration workflow cuts that, you know, essentially to a single session. We have a customer — Apex Engineering, 620 staff — who ran their first data-backed promotion cycle after deploying it.
Ryan (Sales): Their employee NPS jumped 18 points in 12 months with, um, clarity on career progression as the number one driver in the survey.
Jamira (HR Director): That's a really meaningful outcome. Can we speak to them at some point?
Ryan (Sales): Absolutely — they're, uh, referenceable and happy to take calls. I'll arrange a warm intro. Okay — sixth module is Learning and Development.
Ryan (Sales): Integrated LMS with, like, a built-in course builder — SCORM and xAPI compliant — and access to the Veltrix Content Marketplace with over 5,000 pre-built courses.
Ryan (Sales): Compliance training, leadership, technical skills, DEI. Mandatory training tracks, um, automated reminder escalation, compliance reporting.
Chloe (HR Ops): The mandatory training piece is, like, something I've been asking for for years. We currently send, uh, manual reminder emails to about 40 people a week.
Ryan (Sales): So in Veltrix that's fully automated — reminders at 30, 14, and seven days before the deadline, then escalation to the line manager at three days, and to the HRBP on the day itself.
Chloe (HR Ops): And I just — wait, it escalates to the manager if the employee hasn't done it? Like, that's something I have to, um, chase manually right now.
Ryan (Sales): Exactly, yeah — it handles the whole, you know, escalation chain without you touching it. And compliance reports generate in a few minutes rather than days.
Tom (Head of Ops): And the seventh module?
Ryan (Sales): Analytics and Workforce Intelligence — real-time workforce dashboards, um, and two things that usually get a reaction.
Ryan (Sales): First is Veltrix Ask — a natural language query interface. You type a question in plain English, like, "how many people left the London office last quarter", and it returns the answer directly from your live workforce data.
Ryan (Sales): No report building, no filter configuration — you just, uh, ask and get the data.
Jamira (HR Director): Okay that's, um, something I want to see in a demo. I spend so much time asking our HR systems analyst to pull reports for me.
Ryan (Sales): Yeah and the second one is predictive attrition modelling — it, like, flags employees at elevated flight risk based on engagement signals, tenure, compensation position, and manager relationship patterns.
Ryan (Sales): Your HRBPs get a dashboard showing who's at risk and, you know, the specific contributing factors so they can intervene before the resignation lands.
Jamira (HR Director): We lost three senior engineers last year that we, uh, had no warning on. If we'd had that data we might have, like, had a different conversation at their last review.
Ryan (Sales): That's, um, a really common story. And look — the model isn't perfect, it's 74% precision at 30-day prediction, but it's, you know, significantly better than nothing.
Tom (Head of Ops): What does the implementation look like for a company our size? We've had a, uh, bad experience with a tool that took eight months to go live.
Ryan (Sales): For 420 employees with UK native payroll and a German connector, you're, like, looking at a four to six week implementation on average.
Ryan (Sales): Week one is tenant setup, SSO, data migration. Week two is payroll configuration and validation. Week three is workflow setup — onboarding, leave, performance. Week four, training and pilot rollout. Weeks five and six, um, parallel payroll run and full go-live.
Tom (Head of Ops): Four to six weeks versus eight months — that's a, like, very different commitment of our team's time.
Chloe (HR Ops): And what about, uh, our employee data? We have years of records in BambooHR. Does that migrate across?
Ryan (Sales): Yes — standard data migration up to 2,000 employee records is, um, included at no cost. For historical records beyond that, we have a Professional Services engagement but for your headcount it should be, you know, well within the standard scope.
Jamira (HR Director): What does a PoC look like? I don't want to commit to a full migration without, like, actually seeing if this works for our workflows.
Ryan (Sales): Completely reasonable — we have a 21-day PoC that's, uh, free of charge with a dedicated Solutions Engineer assigned to you.
Ryan (Sales): Day one to five we set up the environment, configure SSO with your Azure AD, and import a sample of employee records. Day six to fifteen we build out two or three of your actual use cases, with your real data. Day sixteen to twenty-one, um, we do a structured debrief and give you a quantified ROI projection based on actual usage.
Chloe (HR Ops): So by the end of the PoC we'd actually have, like, a functioning version of the platform with our own data?
Ryan (Sales): Exactly — the PoC is, you know, essentially an implementation rehearsal. By the time you're deciding whether to commit, your team has already done the hard configuration work with us alongside.
Jamira (HR Director): That's, uh, a much more honest evaluation than a 45-minute scripted demo. I like that approach.
Tom (Head of Ops): One more question before we wrap — pricing. What are we, like, looking at for our size?
Ryan (Sales): Veltrix is priced on PEPM — per employee per month. For 420 employees on Business plan that's, um, $11 PEPM on annual billing, so $11 times 420 times 12 equals $55,440 per year.
Ryan (Sales): UK native payroll is bundled in the Business plan. German payroll connector is an add-on at $3 PEPM, so, like, an additional $15,120 a year. Total all-in: $70,560.
Tom (Head of Ops): And we're currently paying, uh, BambooHR, Sage, plus the German bureau fees. I'd need to add those up but it's, you know, probably in that ballpark already.
Ryan (Sales): That's usually, like, exactly what we find. The consolidation is cost-neutral or positive on licence fees alone — and that's before recovering Chloe's, um, full day a week of reconciliation time.
Chloe (HR Ops): If I get that day back, I, uh, will personally send you a thank-you note.
Ryan (Sales): Ha — I'll hold you to that. Okay so, um, what I'd suggest as a next step is a more focused demo on the three things that clearly resonated today — the calibration workflow, mandatory training automation, and Veltrix Ask.
Ryan (Sales): And then if that goes well we can, you know, move into PoC scoping. Does that work for everyone?
Jamira (HR Director): That works perfectly. Can you, uh, send over some times for the demo? And include the Apex Engineering case study if you have it in writing.
Ryan (Sales): Will do — I'll, um, get a follow-up out by end of today with the case study, demo availability, and, you know, a one-pager on the PEPM pricing model. Thanks everyone — really good session.